1) Define Maven Life Cycle. Write all the Maven commands.

Ans) Maven is a powerful project management tool that is based on POM (project object model), used for projects build,
     dependency and documentation. It is a tool that can be used for building and managing any Java-based project. 
     Maven makes the day-to-day work of Java developers easier and helps with the building and running of any Java-based project. 

     Maven Commands:

	mvn clean: Cleans the project and removes all files generated by the previous build.
	mvn compile: Compiles source code of the project.
	mvn test-compile: Compiles the test source code.
	mvn test: Runs tests for the project.
	mvn package: Creates JAR or WAR file for the project to convert it into a distributable format.
	mvn install: Deploys the packaged JAR/ WAR file to the local repository.
	mvn deploy: Copies the packaged JAR/ WAR file to the remote repository after compiling, running tests and building the project.




2) Describe the following Maven commands in 3 lines. 

Ans)  mvn --version : This command shows which version of Maven we are using.

	mvn -- compile: This command compiles the java source classes of the maven project.  This Maven command also executes
 			    all earlier build phases in the default build life cycle, meaning the validate build phase.

      mvn --test : This command runs the tests against the compiled source code using a suitable unit testing framework.
                   These tests should not require the code be packaged or deployed.
			 When the tests are executed, Maven will display any type of exception if it occurs while executing the tests.
                   The errors are related to the following scenarios:
                     - File name you have provided.
			   - Required parameters missing.
			   - Any wrong argument.
		 	   - Any exception occurred while executing scripts.

      mvn  -- install : This command install the package into the local repository, for use as a dependency in other projects locally.
                        It is a phase, in which maven does more than just installing the current project modules artifacs to local 
				repository, it checks remote repository first. 

	mvn --clean : This command, as the name implies, attempts to clean the files and directories generated by 
                    Maven during its build. While there are plugins that generate additional files, the Clean Plugin assumes that these
                    files are generated inside the target directory.



3) What is Web Services?

Ans) A complete web service is, therefore, any service that −

	- Is available over the Internet or private (intranet) networks.
	- Uses a standardized XML messaging system.
	- Is not tied to any one operating system or programming language.
	- Is self-describing via a common XML grammar.
	- Is discoverable via a simple find mechanism.
   
             	
 	
4) What is Rest Controller?

Ans) REST API is an application program interface (API) that uses HTTP requests to GET, PUT, POST, and DELETE data. It has quickly
     become the de facto standard used to communicate between services in microservice-based applications because they’re easy to build
     and easy to consume.
	  RestController is a Spring annotation that is used to build REST API in a declarative way. RestController annotation is applied
     to a class to mark it as a request handler, and Spring will do the building and provide the RESTful web service at runtime.


5) Explain GET, PUT, POST, and DELETE in web services.

Ans) GET: The GET method is used to retrieve data from the server. This is a read-only method, so it has no risk of mutating or 
          corrupting the data. For example, if we call the get method on our API, we’ll get back a list of all to-dos.

     PUT: The PUT method is most often used to update an existing resource. If you want to update a specific resource (which comes with
          a specific URL), you can call the PUT method to that resource URI with the request body containing the complete new version of
          the resource you are trying to update.

     POST: The POST method sends data to the server and creates a new resource. The resource it creates is subordinate to some other
           parent resource. When a new resource is POSTed to the parent, the API service will automatically associate the new resource 
	     by assigning it an ID (new resource URL). In short, this method is used to create a new data entry.
    
     DELETE: The DELETE method is used to delete a resource specified by its URL. he resource that should be deleted is identified by
		 the request URI. DELETE is an idempotent HTTP operation. Sending the same DELETE request multiple times should only alter
             the server state once.

6) Explain Git Life Cycle.

Ans) General workflow is as follows −

	- You clone the Git repository as a working copy.
	- You modify the working copy by adding/editing files.
	- If necessary, you also update the working copy by taking other developer's changes.
	- You review the changes before commit.
	- You commit changes. If everything is fine, then you push the changes to the repository.
	- After committing, if you realize something is wrong, then you correct the last commit and push the changes to the repository.

7) Describe the Git commands.

ANs) Git commands are as follows:
	git init - one way to start a new project with Git
	git add - adds a change in the working directory to the staging area
	git commit - captures a snapshot of the project's currently staged changes
	git pull - used to update the local version of a repository from a remote
	git push - used to upload local repository content to a remote repository
	git checkout - refers to the action of swaping between different repository branches/files/commits
	git log - a utility tool to review and read a history of everything that happens to a repository
	git reset -used to undo local changes to the state of a Git repo
	git revert - used for undoing changes to a repository's commit history
	git merge - allows you to merge branches from Git

8)  Difference between centrally controlled system vs distributed system

	Centrally controlled system - A hardware and/or software IT system in which all parts of it are controlled by a central
                                  controller/server/mainframe.

	Distributed system - A hardware and/or software IT system in which various parts of the control and/or processing are controlled 
                                                              by individual controllers/servers/computers throughout the system.

	Centrally controlled system:
		Advantages - Easy to control
		Disadvantages - If the controller is damaged the whole system will stop working, the system will be overloaded

	Distributed system:
		Advantages - If one part is broken down the system will continue working
		Disadvantages - Data loss can happen because the parts of the system will have to share the data with other parts,
                                                                 finding errors in the system will be much harder
